Cool. Should I just kick it off with my
my spiel?
[Music]
>> Great. Dave, take one. Mark.
>> Hey, I'm Dave. Uh, I lead product design
at Warp. And today I'm going to talk
about the design of our universal input
and how I used Warp to build it. The
biggest challenge of approaching a
redesign like this is dealing with
people's expectations of what the design
should be. So the input is the primary
interface for working with the terminal
and it's something that developers use
all day every day. So I knew going into
it that it was going to be controversial
and there were going to be a lot of
different opinions about what it should
be. A product designer on my team, Peter
and I iterated a bunch on the design of
the input. And so I have Figma pulled up
here with with some of our design files
that we were that we were working on and
iterating on. So, I have here on my
other screen the universal input and
basically what what the design does is
it brings to the forefront all of those
agent controls that were previously sort
of hidden in this agent mode. Once Peter
and I had the design of this input, we
sold it internally and people were
mostly excited by it. But then it sort
of when it came time to build it, our
engineering team was like quite busy
improving the quality of responses for
agent mode and getting the agent
development environment ready. And there
wasn't really enough resources for
building this design. And so I thought,
well, what if I just warp it? And so I
used warp to start building the
universal input. This is just a really
simple example, but inside of warp, we
have this git diff chip and it displays
what git branch you're on and also any
open changes on your branch. And if you
notice right now, it's just like one
pixel too tall, which for me as a
designer bothers me a lot. And the
reason that it's too tall is because the
font here on the actual change display
is one pixel too large. So I'm going to
make uh a quick change to reduce that.
So warp is super powerful for a designer
because it allows me to understand
really complex code bases like warp
itself. So warp is written in Rust and
has over a million lines of code. Some
of those files are 20,000 lines long.
has a completely custom UI framework
that was built from scratch. And so
there really isn't like documentation
out there on the internet of how to use
it or how to read it or understand it as
a designer. So the first thing I'm going
to do is just like ask Warp where this
code is. I didn't actually build this
git chip. We brought in engineers to
help get this project across the line
and they built it. So I'm not super
familiar with the code. Where in the
code is the git chip in the
universal input
and now warp's going to search through
my codebase and actually find the
associated code. So I can see that it's
actually already pulled up a bunch of
different files that reference the git
chip in the universal input. And now
it's actually going to search through
those files and find the specific
functions that control the git chip
display. And it uses a combination of
codebased context semantic search as
well as just traditional find and GP
tools. And I see that it's found the
main implementation inside of display
chip. RS. I can see that it's found the
universal input git branch chip and the
associated render methods.
And I can see the file that configures
where it's displayed and other related
files. So I'm going to just go ahead and
ask it to change the font size. So the
font size on the get
diff
change text is
one pixel too large.
Reduce it by one pixel.
[Music]
And so now Warp's going to go through
the display chip. RS file and look for
instances of the the font size. And it
can see that it's set to the system font
size minus one, but I actually want it
set to -2. So it's already figured that
out. that I'm asking it to set it to
negative -2. And then here I can see
that it's found all instances
of the font size and made the
modifications for me which is pretty
sweet. Now I'm going to go ahead and
just build the application and check its
work. So in another pane I will switch
into terminal mode and do cargo run
which is how we build the application
locally.
This will take a minute.
Okay. And now I see that the application
is built and the git chip is the correct
size. If you compare them side by side
here, I can see that the text is
slightly smaller and that makes the
height of the chip the correct size
which makes me stoked as a designer.
[Music]